spec/4_differences_from_did_sov.md, before:

## Differences from `did:sov`

Early instances of Indy Networks used the `did:sov` DID Method. The following summarizes the differences between that `did:sov` and `did:indy`.

- A `did:indy` DID includes a namespace component that enables resolving a DID to a specific instance of an Indy network (e.g. Sovrin, IDUnion, etc.).
- `did:indy` DID validation is determined by `version`, as shown below. These restrictions MUST be enforced by the ledger.
    - 0: no validation
    - 1: validation that the did is the first 16 bytes of the verification key (validation according to did:sov method)
    - 2: validation of self-certification; that the did is the first 16 bytes of the SHA256 of the verification key (validation according to the did:indy method)
- Identifiers for Indy ledger objects other than [[ref: NYM]]s are adjusted to contain a namespace component.
- The specification includes rules for transforming a [[ref: NYM]] into a DIDDoc that meets the DID Core Specification.
    - An optional [[ref: NYM]] data item allows entities to extend the DIDDoc returned from a [[ref: NYM]] in arbitrary ways.
    - The controller can decide whether the DIDDoc will be JSON or JSON-LD.
    - Before writing a [[ref: NYM]] to the ledger, the [[ref: NYM]] content is verified to ensure that transforming the [[ref: NYM]] to a DIDDoc produces a valid JSON and may include DIDDoc validity checking.
    - The transformation of a read [[ref: NYM]] to a DIDDoc is left to the client of an Indy ledger.
- A convention for storing Indy network instance config ("genesis") files in a Hyperledger Indy project GitHub repository ("indy-did-networks") is introduced.

Commit message:

docs: create NYM transaction version section
Signed-off-by: Char Howland <char@indicio.tech>

spec/4_differences_from_did_sov.md, after:

## Differences from `did:sov`

Early instances of Indy Networks used the `did:sov` DID Method. The following summarizes the differences between that `did:sov` and `did:indy`.

- A `did:indy` DID includes a namespace component that enables resolving a DID to a specific instance of an Indy network (e.g. Sovrin, IDUnion, etc.).
- `did:indy` DID validation is determined by NYM transaction `version`, as described in the [DID Creation](#nym-transaction-version) section. These restrictions MUST be enforced by the ledger.
- Identifiers for Indy ledger objects other than [[ref: NYM]]s are adjusted to contain a namespace component.
- The specification includes rules for transforming a [[ref: NYM]] into a DIDDoc that meets the DID Core Specification.
    - An optional [[ref: NYM]] data item allows entities to extend the DIDDoc returned from a [[ref: NYM]] in arbitrary ways.
    - The controller can decide whether the DIDDoc will be JSON or JSON-LD.
    - Before writing a [[ref: NYM]] to the ledger, the [[ref: NYM]] content is verified to ensure that transforming the [[ref: NYM]] to a DIDDoc produces a valid JSON and may include DIDDoc validity checking.
    - The transformation of a read [[ref: NYM]] to a DIDDoc is left to the client of an Indy ledger.
- A convention for storing Indy network instance config ("genesis") files in a Hyperledger Indy project GitHub repository ("indy-did-networks") is introduced.
